# i18n / l10n: Internationalization and localization

## Presentation

The goal of these features is to provide some text in the language of the user (internationalization) 
and use units related to the user country (localization).

In order to achieve it, we use [react-i18nify](https://github.com/JSxMachina/react-i18nify)

`react-i18nify` can then:

* Load translations
* Give the correct translation for a given key


## Examples

Let's suppose that we have the following json file in project: `translations.json`

```json
{
  "fr": {
    "welcome": "Bienvenue!"
  },
  "en": {
    "welcome": "Welcome!"
  }
}
```

where the `fr` and the `en` sections contain the same keys 

in order to request a translated text:

```scala
I18n.t("welcome")
```

If the key is in a hierarchy, it is traversed with `.`, for instance:

```scala
I18n.t("my-component.welcome")
```

The text will be by default escaped which means that html elements are protected.
If you need to unescape them, use the `org.make.front.facades.Unescape.unescape` method.

## Going further

### Loading translations

Translations are loaded with the method `org.make.front.facades.I18n.setTranslations`

In order to load the translations, the most simple is to use the json loader in webpack to build the whole file:

```scala
// Define the json files containing the translations

@js.native
@JSImport("./i18n/fr_FR.json", "default")
object translationsFrFR extends js.Object

@js.native
@JSImport("./i18n/en_GB.json", "default")
object translationsEnGB extends js.Object


// Combine and load the translations
I18n.setTranslations(
  js.Dictionary[js.Object]("fr" -> translationsFrFR, "en" -> translationsEnGB)
)

```

Changing the language can then be done using `org.make.front.facades.I18n.setLocale`.
Note that all the translations retrieved with `I18n.t` will _not_ reload automatically, 
so changing the language should reload the whole application.

### Displaying 

react-i18nify defines the following components:

* `<Translate />`
* `<Localize />`

:warning: These components are rich, but will always render an extra `<span>` in the dom. 
This is why it is not advised to use them.

### Interpolation

`react-i18nify` allows interpolation. In order to use it, define variables inside your translation:

`"my-key": "%{total} actions en cours"`

Then to use it in the code:

```scala
I18n.t(
  "my-key",
  Replacements(
    "total" -> "2"
  )
)
```

### Counting elements

`react-i18nify` can also pluralize words, for instance:

```json
{
  "fr": {
    "my-key": "%{total} actions en cours",
    "my-key_1": "%{total} action en cours"
  }
}
```

Then to use it in the code:

```scala
I18n.t(
  "my-key",
  Replacements(
    "total" -> "2",
    "count" -> "2"
  )
)
```

The `count` variable will then be used to pluralize.